VPDDECODE(8)                                                      VPDDECODE(8)



NAME
       vpddecode - VPD structure decoder

SYNOPSIS
       vpddecode [OPTIONS]


DESCRIPTION
       vpddecode prints the "vital product data" information that can be found
       in almost all IBM computers, and only IBM  computers.  Available  items
       are:

       o BIOS Build ID

       o Product Name

       o Box Serial Number

       o Motherboard Serial Number

       o Machine Type/Model


       Some systems have these additional items:

       o BIOS Release Date

       o Default Flash Image File Name


       Note  that these additional items are not documented by IBM, so this is
       guess work, and as such should not be blindly trusted.  Feedback  about
       the accuracy of these labels is welcome.


OPTIONS
       -d, --dev-mem FILE
              Read memory from device FILE (default: /dev/mem)

       -s, --string KEYWORD
              Only  display the value of the VPD string identified by KEYWORD.
              KEYWORD must be a keyword from the following  list:  bios-build-
              id,  box-serial-number, motherboard-serial-number, machine-type-
              model, bios-release-date.  Each keyword corresponds to an offset
              and  a  length  within  the  VPD record.  Not all strings may be
              defined on all VPD-enabled systems.  If KEYWORD is not  provided
              or not valid, a list of all valid keywords is printed and vpdde-
              code exits with an error.  This option cannot be used more  than
              once.  Mutually exclusive with --dump.

       -u, --dump
              Do  not decode the VPD records, dump their contents as hexadeci-
              mal instead.  Note that this is still a text output,  no  binary
              data will be thrown upon you. ASCII equivalent is displayed when
              possible. This option is mainly useful for debugging.   Mutually
              exclusive with --string.

       -h, --help
              Display usage information and exit

       -V, --version
              Display the version and exit


FILES
       /dev/mem

BUGS
       The  lookup  table  for  product names is incomplete. If your system is
       missing from the table, vpddecode will  ask  you  to  report.  See  the
       AUTHORS  file  for  maintainer  contact information. Your report should
       include the product name of the machine, and the BIOS build ID as given
       by vpddecode.

AUTHOR
       Jean Delvare

SEE ALSO
       biosdecode(8), dmidecode(8), mem(4), ownership(8)



dmidecode                        October 2005                     VPDDECODE(8)
